Lisa...
There's no way you two, who are unpowered, can beat us.
Lisa-san! Don't do this!
Here in this world, where human combustion is rampant,
you who are unpowered and unable to cope with it have no choice but to die.
However, Lisa's power has been kindled within her.
Thanks to her compatibility with the bugs.
My parents died in a fire caused by an Infernal.
Ever since then, I feared the flames,
but thanks to the bugs, my eyes were opened, and the fear disappeared.
Lisa, you're being fooled!
Just like you before, I don't have any powers.
As a Fire Soldier, carrying out my duties, I, too, experience the terror of the flames.
Dr. Giovanni is only preying on your vulnerability to take advantage of you!
You can say that to her with your ax in hand?
I'm directing that at you!
Stop this, Lisa-san! There's no reason to protect him!
These tentacles that envelop me react to magnetism,
and automatically defend me.
The flames that I once feared are now something that protect me.
What kind of bug did this to you, Lisa?!
Would you like to know?
I'm not telling you!
You're both going to die in ignorance!
You are one aggravating old coot!
Did you think you could put out my flames with a fire extinguisher?!
That won't work, Captain!
Yeah, we'll see!
Are you just messing with me now?
No, I'm not messing with you.
I'm trying my hardest to rescue you from the flames holding you captive!
I am not captive!
Then tell me, why do you look so anxious?
I am not anxious!
Putting out fires is our job.
You brought something as useless as a fire extinguisher to the battlefield?
What a foolish man you are.
You used to be a Fire Soldier, right? You know how dangerous a scene can be.
The motto of a Fire Soldier is to protect lives and property!
Rescue equipment is never useless!
Kill them.
Y-Yes, sir.
Your compassion is going to cost you your life.
Your desire to save lives is pointless if you lose your own life.
The last thing I'd do is treat my life carelessly.
I've been setting things up to save you, Lisa-san. Sorry to keep you.
Obi!
You pretended to get beaten up by her
so you could put extinguisher grenades on each of her tentacles?!
I'm falling...!
I don't have anything left... Dad... Mom...
Vulcan!
I don't think you get it, Feeler!
Feeler!
Who was it that saved you from the flame terror?
I'm the one who allowed you to stay together with Vulcan.
I know you haven't forgotten how indebted you are to me.
Come back.
Lisa!
It's no use.
Dr. Giovanni is the one who gave to me when I lost everything.
I can't turn against him.
Just leave me alone, okay?
Giovanni!
Don't move. I will burn through her neck with this heating wire.
Stop!
Vulcan, if you want to save this girl, you will do as I say.
Take that gun and shoot Obi with it.
Just how rotten are you?!
Rejoice, Feeler.
Right now, your life is being put to use to serve the Evangelist.
Isn't that what you want?
Vulcan, do as he says.
I'm sorry.
Hold your head up.
Now, shoot him. You're out of time.
You can make a big production, but it comes down to you shooting him or not.
If you shoot him, Feeler lives;
if you don't, Lisa dies.
That's all there is to it.
I swear I'm gonna kill you!
You are?
Then you can watch as this heating wire sends the girl's head flying.
Shoot me, Vulcan! Shoot me and save Lisa-san!
I can't!
Then Lisa is finished.
Shoot me, Vulcan! Lisa-san will be killed!
Yeah, but...
Damn it!
You'd shoot your superior to protect your girl, Vulcan?
Lisa... Captain...
Damn that's terrifying, even knowing it's coming!
Turnout coats aren't supposed to be bulletproof.
You had something rigged up over your chest.
Would you like to know? Hmm? Giovanni? Hmm?
--It's an anti-physical-attack vest! --I'm not telling!
Aww... I am the 8th's engineer!
There's no way I'm letting my captain go out unprotected!
And that's why you did something that rash.
We trust each other at the 8th, which makes us a team.
Trust is a ridiculous, inexplicable concept!
What kind of disordered hardware is that?!
If the old man saw those, he'd be disgusted.
Penguin-met, equip!
I'm going to give your machinery a strength test!
You make some weak hardware, don't you?
Lisa!
Lisa... Nice! Way to go!
Pretty smooth work for an unpowered.
You started out as a Fire Soldier!
How does someone who protects the people from the flames
end up giving rise to man-made Infernals?!
What is this Evangelist you speak of after to be doing such a thing?!
You said that the motto you Fire Soldiers have
is to protect lives and property, didn't you?
Don't you realize how trivial that is?
Take a broader look at the world.
People are just a small portion of the energy in it.
Let stunted humanity burn, and become a part of this world!
That's a load of crap!
Around 250 years ago, the planet faced the Day of the Cataclysm.
The cause of it was the release of a massive Adolla Burst.
Further, the source of the Adolla Burst is a place you already believe in.
Long before the Solar calendar began,
before even the Great Cataclysm, since time immemorial,
mankind has lived in fear of it.
Regardless of what causes human combustion, it's our job to stop it.
There isn't a good reason to set people ablaze!
Spontaneous human combustion is in keeping with natural law.
Do you intend to defy the natural order?
Your own bugs are unnatural!
Do you think the Evangelist to be a common person such as yourselves?
Whoever or whatever the Evangelist may be,
they're nothing more than an idol you heretics have propped up to worship!
Honestly. What a ridiculous notion. An idol we worship?
Then what does that make the great Sol of the Holy Sol Temple?
What is the meaning in offering prayers that you don't know will be answered
to a god that you don't know exists?
Say what you will, but the Holy Sol Temple doesn't burn people!
The Evangelist is no idol.
An unpowered such as yourself could not comprehend the Evangelist.
Though Shinra Kusakabe may be starting to get an inkling.
"Episode 21: Those Connected"
Shinra-kun? Are you all right?
Where is... this place...?
Who... are you...?
Shinra!
Sho...
Shinra-kun!
Are you okay, Shinra-kun?
What... did I...?
"Devil's Footprints."
What's the matter? Do you see something?
He's there, up ahead-- Sho.
Right about now,
Shinra Kusakabe's Adolla Burst should be starting to Link with Commander Sho.
Link? What is it he's connecting with?
What is an Adolla Burst?!
An Adolla Burst is a special flame that can affect all other heat.
It's the next step beyond a pyrokinetic,
as well as the pilot light behind human combustion.
Then what are those bugs?!
Why do you use them as pilot lights to trigger human combustion?!
The connection between bugs and flames?
It's often said that the biology of insects evolved down a different path
than the other creatures of the earth, right?
So then, where did bugs come from?
What if they come from the same place that Adolla Bursts originate?
"Like moths to a flame."
What if that behavior is them trying to return to their mother flames?
So, you came after all... Shinra Kusakabe.
Yeah! I'm here, just like I promised!
Promised? Promised to whom?
To our mom, Sho.
I don't have a mother. The only mother figure I have is the Evangelist.
Just thinking that you and I might be brothers turns my stomach.
I have no recollection of being born from that filthy belly.
Don't speak ill of Mom.
Two bearers of an Adolla Burst, right before my eyes!
Fantastic!
You're not in the mood for a friendly chat, then?
Are you able to see this, too?
What just happened? It was like he stopped time.
How could he do that with pyrokinesis?
Captain!
--Lieutenant Hinawa!
--Maki! --Lieutenant Hinawa!
Captain!
The lesson is over.
My task was to get Commander Sho and Shinra Kusakabe together.
Now that it has been accomplished, I have no need to buy any more time.
All by the grace of the Evangelist.
Hold it!
Adolla Bursts are the cause of human combustion?
What the hell is happening to the world?
You think you can just run away?!
I'll leave Lisa here. But you will not reverse her brainwashing.
Please wait... Please don't leave me behind...
Lisa... Brainwashing... Religion... Faith...
They're like a curse to people.
Bye, now.
However quickly you may be able to move, you can never catch up to me.
The universes in which we exist are different.
Universes?
Huh? What are you talking about?
We live in different universes? Is that why you're telling me to give up?
I'm taking you with me, even if I have to drag you along!
What is that steam?
What, have you been bewitched by a fox?
Universes... time... freezing...
If he's engaging enough heat to expand the universe...
I-It can't be...!
Even if he is a third generation, can a person do such a thing?!
Shinra-kun, let's get out of here! He's too much for you! You can't win!
Commander Sho is...!
Huh? What exactly is Sho doing?
No matter how fast you are, it is meaningless against me.
I can control my own universe.
Your own universe? What the hell does that mean?
Another Adolla Link?
You will never understand it if I explain it in words.
"To be continued"
Look at the imaginations in my head and I'll go back to myself
Forcing right decisions on me is like a devil that eats me up
He that used his claws on me
Uses the same claws to defend someone else
Weapons turn into both wounds and shields
Isn't that what life's about?
A secret known to none
For so long almost seems to disappear but never does
Been holding on to it
While spending a night in the fire
The more they're attracted, the more the ignorant laugh
What used to make up the universe until yesterday takes the helm
The entire range of emotions that breathes
Don't want to take away what I haven't even experienced
Look at the imaginations in my head and I'll go back to myself
Forcing right decisions on me is like a devil that eats me up
Don't get in my way anymore
I won't be killed by your ideals
"Next time"
"Episode 22: A Brother's Determination"